**1. Consider a demand curve which takes the form of a straight-line cutting both axes. Elasticity at the mid-point of the line would be**

(A) 0

(B) 1.0

(C) 1.5

(D) 2.0

---

**2. Price taker firms**

(A) Advertise to increase the demand for their product

(B) Do not advertise, because most advertising is wasteful.

(C) Do not advertise because they can sell as much as they want at the current price.

(D) Who advertise will get more profits than those who do not.

---

**3. OPEC is an example of the type of producer’s organisation known as a**

(A) Marketing Board

(B) Producer’s Co-operative

(C) Trust

(D) Cartel

---

**4. Match the following : List – I vs List – II. I. Responsiveness of demand to change in price - 1. Income elasticity of demand. II. Responsiveness of demand to change in tastes - 2. Price elasticity of demand. III. Responsiveness of demand to change in income - 3. Cross elasticity of demand. IV. Responsiveness of demand to change in price of related goods - 4. Taste elasticity of demand. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 2 3 4

(B) 4 3 1 2

(C) 3 4 2 1

(D) 2 4 1 3

---

**5. Opportunity costs are also known as**

(A) Spill-over costs

(B) Money costs

(C) Alternative costs

(D) Sunk costs

---

**6. Employees with high self-esteem set**

(A) higher goals for others

(B) higher goals for themselves and lower goals for others

(C) higher goals for themselves

(D) None of the above

---

**7. Need for achievement goes with**

(A) F.W. Taylor

(B) Hertzberg

(C) McGregor

(D) McClelland

---

**8. An organizational memory includes the following except**

(A) Information that employees possess

(B) Knowledge embedded in the organisation’s systems and structures

(C) Documents

(D) Knowledge that is not documented

---

**9. People should be held accountable for their own behaviour, and if holding people accountable for their own behaviour entails capital punishment, then so be it. However, no person should be held accountable for behaviour of others over which he or she had no control. Which of the following is the most logical conclusion of the argument above ?**

(A) People should not be held accountable for the behaviour of other people.

(B) People have control over their behaviour.

(C) People cannot control the behaviour of other people.

(D) Behaviour that cannot be controlled should not be punished.

---

**10. Nominal group technique is**

(A) a consensus planning tool, generally used by groups to discuss, debate and decide on issues of strength identification, problems and solutions.

(B) a consensus planning tool to arrive at decisions on issues, for instance man-power requirement, by involving group of experts through blind rounds of communication

(C) a majority based decision making tool

(D) None of the above

---

**11. Which pattern reflects a pure executive form of management ?**

(A) Functional

(B) Line

(C) Line and Staff

(D) Committee

---

**12. “A place for everything, everything in its place” is**

(A) American Management

(B) 5s Practice

(C) Peter Principle

(D) A Chinese Practice

---

**13. ‘Appreciative Enquiry’ is**

(A) Psychological Theory

(B) Training Method

(C) Business etiquette

(D) HR Quality

---

**14. Robert Keplan is associated with**

(A) A Benchmark Practice

(B) Balanced Score Card

(C) Kaizen

(D) Quality of Life

---

**15. Strategic Intent of an Organization should clearly spell out**

(A) Who we are

(B) Where are we going in the long term

(C) How will we measure the performance

(D) All of the above

---

**16. In an endeavour to maximize corporate value, a finance manager has to factor in the following**

(A) Optimization Principle

(B) Risk-return Principle

(C) Marginal Principle

(D) All the above

---

**17. The term financial engineering is related to**

(A) Cost of production

(B) Financial restructuring

(C) Product planning

(D) Capital issue

---

**18. Value of the merged firm shall be**

(A) Less than the acquired firm

(B) More than the acquirer

(C) Greater than the target and the acquirer

(D) None of the above

---

**19. When borrowing is less than equity, the company is said to be**

(A) Trading on equity

(B) Trading on thick equity

(C) Trading on thin equity

(D) None of these

---

**20. Match the following : List – I (Types of Debt) vs List – II (Elements). I. Secured debt - 1. Mortgage on Assets. II. Unsecured debt - 2. Non-mortgage on Assets. III. Convertible debt - 3. Option. IV. Redeemable debt - 4. Payment. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 2 1 3 4

(C) 3 1 4 2

(D) 1 2 3 4

---

**21. It is a set of procedures and sources used by managers to obtain everyday information about developments in the marketing environment. It is known as**

(A) Internal Records System

(B) Marketing Intelligence System

(C) Marketing Research System

(D) Marketing Decision Support System

---

**22. Match the List – I with List – II : List – I (Stage of the product life cycle) vs List – II (Marketing strategy applied in the stage of the product life cycle). I. Introduction Stage - 1. Market Modification. II. Growth Stage - 2. Rapid Skimming Strategy. III. Maturity Stage - 3. Enter New Market Segments. IV. Decline Stage - 4. Continuation Strategy. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 3 2 4 1

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 2 3 4 1

(D) 4 2 1 3

---

**23. It has been described as a cluster of complementary goods and services that are closely related in the minds of consumers but are spread across a diverse set of industries. It is known as**

(A) Market Place

(B) Market Space

(C) Meta-Market

(D) Marketing Mix

---

**24. Company’s ability to provide individually differentiated product for each consumer is called as**

(A) Digitalization

(B) Disintermediation

(C) Customerization

(D) Connectivity

---

**25. The qualitative value of an exposure through a given medium is related to**

(A) Reach

(B) Frequency

(C) Impact

(D) All of the above

---

**26. When work stations are arranged according to the progressive steps by which the product is produced, it is called a**

(A) Functional layout

(B) Process layout

(C) Job shop layout

(D) Product layout

---

**27. If for a demand process suited to a = 0.1 we try to fit a forecasting procedure with a = 0.3, the forecast will**

(A) Show large swings up and down

(B) Follow the demand better, consequently reducing forecast errors

(C) Show a pronounced behaviour

(D) None of the above

---

**28. CRAFT considers exchanges of locations for those departments which**

(A) have the same area

(B) have a common border

(C) either (A) or (B)

(D) have same costs per unit of distance

---

**29. If the ordering costs are over-estimated by 50 percent and carrying costs are under-estimated by 50 percent, the total annual cost will exceed the optimum cost by**

(A) 73.2 per cent

(B) 50 per cent

(C) 0 per cent

(D) 150 per cent

---

**30. PERT/CPM network analysis can be used for**

(A) Project appraisal

(B) Project implementation

(C) Project monitoring and control

(D) All of the above

---

**31. If P(A) = 2/3, P(B) = 1/2, P(A/B) = 1/3, then the value of P(B/A) is**

(A) 1/2

(B) 1/3

(C) 1/4

(D) 1/5

---

**32. The level of significance is the probability of committing the**

(A) Type I error

(B) Type II error

(C) Standard error

(D) Probable error

---

**33. The two lines of regression are 3x + 2y = 26 and 6x + y = 31 then the mean of x is**

(A) 3

(B) 4

(C) 6

(D) 7

---

**34. For which distribution(s) Mean and Median are equal ? (i) Binomial Distribution; (ii) Poisson Distribution; (iii) Exponential Distribution; or (iv) Normal Distribution. Codes :**

(A) (i)

(B) (ii)

(C) (i) & (iii)

(D) (ii) & (iv)

---

**35. The type of transmission channel which can transmit data in one direction only is known as**

(A) Simplex

(B) Half Duplex

(C) Full Duplex

(D) Half Simplex

---

**36. Eliminate – reduce – raise – create grid is germane to**

(A) Competitive Strategy

(B) Blue Ocean Strategy

(C) Red Ocean Strategy

(D) None of the above

---

**37. Match the following : List – I vs List – II. I. Ansoff - 1. Case competency. II. C.K. Prahlad - 2. Management by Objectives. III. Peter F. Drucker - 3. Cascade Approach. IV. Alfred Chandler - 4. Structure follows Strategy. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 3 1 2 4

(D) 4 2 3 1

---

**38. Growth strategy requires that a firm should**

(A) realign its product market environment

(B) acquire new firm

(C) go for new product development

(D) expand the market

---

**39. Michael Porter’s five forces model belongs to**

(A) Planning School

(B) Positioning School

(C) Cognitive School

(D) Competitive Strategy School

---

**40. The theory of business of an organization is embodied in**

(A) Vision

(B) Mission Statement

(C) Objectives

(D) Policies

---

**41. Service Sector is also called**

(A) Primary Sector

(B) Secondary Sector

(C) Tertiary Sector

(D) None of the above

---

**42. The definition of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in India is based on**

(A) Total Sales of the Unit

(B) Investment in machines and equipments

(C) Market coverage

(D) Export capacity

---

**43. Which one of the following agencies has the power to declare any industrial unit as a potentially sick unit ?**

(A) BIFR

(B) SIDBI

(C) IRCI

(D) FICCI

---

**44. The headquarters of the SIDBI is in**

(A) Mumbai

(B) Lucknow

(C) New Delhi

(D) Hyderabad

---

**45. In MSMED Act, 2006, the investment limit for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises have been prescribed as**

(A) ₹ 10 lakhs, ₹ 5 crores and ₹ 10 crores

(B) ₹ 5 lakhs, ₹ 1 crore and ₹ 10 crores

(C) ₹ 5 lakhs, ₹ 1 crore and ₹ 5 crores

(D) ₹ 10 lakhs, ₹ 10 crores and ₹ 15 crores

---

**46. The study of moral principles or values that determine whether actions are right or wrong and outcomes are good or bad refers to following :**

(A) Quality

(B) Ethics

(C) Opinions

(D) Controls

---

**47. Match List – I with List – II : List – I (Terms relating to Ethics) vs List – II (Conceptual description of terms relating to Ethics). I. Ethical Climate - 1. Each society’s view of ethics must be considered legitimate and ethical. II. Ethical Relativism - 2. There are basic moral principles that transcend cultural and political boundaries. III. Ethical Universalism - 3. People pick-up subtle hints and clues that tell them what behaviour is approved and what is forbidden. IV. Ethical Convergence - 4. There are growing pressures on international business to follow the same rules in managing ethical behaviour and social responsibility. Codes : I II III IV**

(A) 3 1 2 4

(B) 1 3 2 4

(C) 1 4 3 2

(D) 4 1 2 3

---

**48. An organization’s moral obligation toward all of its stakeholders is referred as following :**

(A) Value in workplace

(B) Corporate social responsibility

(C) Ethical behaviour

(D) Professionalism

---

**49. ________is the manager’s dilemma when he has to decide on the commercial proposal submitted by his son.**

(A) Favouritism

(B) Moral Dilemma

(C) Conflict of Interest

(D) None of the above

---

**50. “Make use of paper bags instead of plastic bags.” It is related to**

(A) Environmental Ethics

(B) Green Marketing

(C) Socially Responsible Marketing

(D) Social Marketing

---

**Note: This paper contains fifty (50) objective type questions, each question carrying two (2) marks. Attempt all the questions.**

---

**1. In the case of an inferior commodity, the income elasticity of demand is**

(A) Positive

(B) Unitary

(C) Negative

(D) Infinity

---

**2. The slope of the iso-cost line is determined by**

(A) Prices of the two factors

(B) Productivity of the two factors

(C) Degree of substitutability of the two factors

(D) None of these

---

**3. Which one of the following statements is correct or more nearly correct?**

(A) An increase in the price of commodity represents a fall in its value

(B) Value has nothing to do with the price

(C) If the price of a commodity falls, its value relative to other goods does not change

(D) The price of a good is its value measured in terms of money

---

**4. The important macro-economic aggregates are**

(A) Aggregate Consumption

(B) Gross Domestic Capital Formation

(C) Gross Domestic Savings and GNP

(D) All of the above

---

**5. Match the following**
**List – I**
**I. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by zero per cent**
**II. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by 5 per cent**
**III. For a given 10 per cent change in price demand changes by 10 per cent**
**IV. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by 20 per cent**
**List – II**
**1. e > 1**
**2. e = 1**
**3. e < 1**
**4. e = 0**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 3 1 2 4

(B) 4 3 2 1

(C) 1 2 3 4

(D) 2 3 1 4

---

**6. Long-lasting beliefs about what is important in a variety of situations, that guide our decisions and actions are :**

(A) values

(B) ethical dimensions

(C) priorities

(D) desires

---

**7. Figure – Ground Theory explains the process of**

(A) Cognition

(B) Sensation

(C) Perception

(D) Motivation

---

**8. Successive re-inforcements resulting in desired behaviour are**

(A) mentoring

(B) motivation

(C) shaping

(D) behaviour-modification

---

**9. Psychological contract is related to**

(A) job – person fit

(B) role – person fit

(C) organisation – person fit

(D) none of the above

---

**10. Equity is called as**

(A) equality of all

(B) standard performance

(C) comparative sense of justice to self

(D) none of the above

---

**11. The distinction between ‘job enrichment’ and ‘job enlargement’ is**

(A) semantics

(B) ‘job enrichment’ is vertical loading while ‘job enlargement’ is horizontal loading

(C) ‘job enrichment’ is the outgrowth of Hertzberg’s theory while ‘job enlargement’ is of Maslow’s orientation.

(D) ‘job enrichment’ is more for the individual and the other is more of organisation making

---

**12. In ‘delegation’**

(A) Only authority is delegated not responsibility

(B) Both authority and responsibility are delegated

(C) Only responsibility is delegated, not authority

(D) Neither responsibility, nor authority is delegated

---

**13. Cross-functional groups that operate across space, time and organisational boundaries with members who communicate mainly through information technologies are**

(A) telecomputers

(B) virtual teams

(C) teleworkers

(D) telemarketers

---

**14. Career resilience means**

(A) Ability to switch careers

(B) Ability to remain with same competencies refining suitably for organizations

(C) Lack of capacity to remain in career

(D) None of the above

---

**15. Lock out means**

(A) An antithesis of strike

(B) Refusal to employ any person in employment

(C) the temporary closing of a place of employment

(D) Illegal strike

---

**16. Which is the task of a finance manager?**

(A) Investment decision

(B) Dividend decision

(C) Management of income

(D) All of the above

---

**17. Which method of capital budgeting focuses on liquidity of a project?**

(A) Net present value

(B) Profitability index

(C) Payback period

(D) Internal rate of returns

---

**18. Which statement is true about deep discount bonds?**

(A) These are in the form of low interest bonds

(B) These bonds are sold at a discounted value and on maturity face value of the bond is paid to the investors

(C) There is no interest payout during lock-in period

(D) None of the above

---

**19. Financial leverage is**

(A) EBIT / Sales × 100

(B) EBIT / EBT

(C) Sales / Fixed Assets

(D) Profit / Sales × Capital

---

**20. Match the following**
**List-I (items / method)**
**I. Rate of return method**
**II. Purchase consideration**
**III. Diminishing Balance Method**
**IV. Fifo Method**
**List – II (used / Application)**
**1. Capital budgeting**
**2. Merger**
**3. Depreciation**
**4. Stock valuation**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 3 2 4 1

(C) 1 2 3 4

(D) 1 4 3 2

---

**21. Arrange the following steps of a five-stage model of the consumer buying process:**
**I. Evaluation of Alternatives**
**II. Need Arousal**
**III. Information search**
**IV. Purchase Decision**
**V. Post Purchase behaviour**
**Code**

(A) IV, II, III, I, V

(B) III, II, I, IV, V

(C) I, II, IV, III, V

(D) II, III, I, IV, V

---

**22. It refers to the total number of items in the Product Mix. It is known as following.**

(A) The width of product mix

(B) The length of product mix

(C) The depth of product mix

(D) The consistency of product mix

---

**23. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion (A), and the other labelled as Reason (R). State the correct answer from code given below.**
**Assertion (A) : Pure-click companies can be search engines, Internet service providers, commerce sites, transaction sites, content sites and enabler sites.**
**Reason (R) : Pure-click companies are those companies that have launched a website without any previous existence as a firm.**
**Code :**

(A) (A) is correct, but (R) is wrong.

(B) Both (A) and (R) are correct.

(C) (A) is wrong, but (R) is correct.

(D) Both (A) and (R) are wrong.

---

**24. Match List-I and List-II.**
**List – I (Characteristics of Services)**
**I. Intangibility**
**II. Inseparability**
**III. Variability**
**IV. Perishability**
**List – II (Marketing Strategy applied considering a characteristic of service)**
**1. Preparing a service blue print showing each service and process in a flow chart.**
**2. Tangiblize the intangible**
**3. To train more service providers and build up client confidence.**
**4. Use differential pricing**
**Code :**
**I II III IV**

(A) 2 1 3 4

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 1 3 2 4

(D) 2 1 4 3

---

**25. A diverse collection of incentive tools designed to stimulate quicker buying of a particular product or service by consumers or the trade is known as**

(A) Advertising

(B) Personal selling

(C) Publicity

(D) Sales promotion

---

**26. Which of the following departments is not directly affected by the facilities location decision?**

(A) Production / operations

(B) Marketing

(C) Personnel

(D) Finance

---

**27. Ship building and construction of dams and bridges are typical examples of**

(A) Fixed position layout

(B) Functional layout

(C) Product layout

(D) Project type layout

---

**28. If unit item cost = Rs. 10, monthly carrying charge = 3 per cent, monthly demand = 100 units and ordering cost = Rs. 20 per order, the EOQ is :**

(A) 11.45

(B) 400

(C) 115.4

(D) 33.3

---

**29. In managing a project, a network is better suited than Gantt chart because**

(A) It can be updated more easily

(B) It clearly brings out the interdependencies between the different activities

(C) Both (A) and (B)

(D) None of the above

---

**30. The aggregate production plan spans**

(A) Short time horizon

(B) Intermediate time horizon

(C) Long time horizon

(D) None of the above

---

**31. The probability that a contractor will get a plumbing contract is 2/3 and that he will get an electric contract is 4/9. If the probability of his getting at least one of the two contracts is 4/5, then the probability that he will get both contracts is**

(A) 10/45

(B) 8/27

(C) 14/45

(D) 26/45

---

**32. If a random variable X follows Poisson distribution such that P(X = 1) = P(X = 2), then the mean of the distribution is**

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---

**33. The value of R1.23 lies between**

(A) −1 and +1

(B) −1 and 0.0

(C) 0.0 and +1

(D) −0.5 and +0.5

---

**34. A source programme is**

(A) a programme written in machine language

(B) a programme to be translated into machine language

(C) the machine language translation of a programme written in high-level language

(D) none of the above

---

**35. Processing data in groups collected over periods of time is known as**

(A) Time-sharing

(B) Batch processing

(C) Real-time processing

(D) Multi-processing

---

**36. “We must forget to learn and learn forgetting” is ascribed to**

(A) Tom Peters

(B) Peter F. Drucker

(C) Abraham S. Maslow

(D) Garry Hamel

---

**37. In highly competitive environment an organization to achieve sustained success should be**

(A) Better

(B) Bigger

(C) Resilient

(D) None of the above

---

**38. Corporate governance is about**

(A) Crafting the strategy

(B) Compliance with regulatory regime

(C) Satisfying the stakeholders

(D) governing the company in the interest of government in power

---

**39. Strategic planning is about**

(A) Strategic thinking

(B) Strategic programming

(C) Tactical Planning

(D) Portfolio Planning

---

**40. If two or more companies are merged and only one of them survives while others loose their independent entity, it is referred to as**

(A) Merger

(B) Absorption

(C) Amalgamation

(D) Combination

---

**41. The MSMED Act, 2006 classified enterprises broadly into**

(A) Two categories
(i) Manufacturing enterprises and
(ii) Service enterprises

(B) Three categories
(i) Micro enterprises
(ii) Small enterprises
(iii) Medium enterprises

(C) Four categories
(i) Micro enterprises
(ii) Small enterprises
(iii) Tiny enterprises
(iv) Medium enterprises

(D) Four categories
(i) Tiny enterprises
(ii) Micro enterprises
(iii) Small business enterprises
(iv) Medium enterprises

---

**42. Which sector is called as Primary Sector in India?**

(A) Industrial sector

(B) Service sector

(C) External sector

(D) Agricultural sector

---

**43. How many times the census of registered Micro, small and medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have been made by Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO)?**

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---

**44. EDII is situated at**

(A) New Delhi

(B) Ahmedabad

(C) Patna

(D) Kolkata

---

**45. Industrial Policy of which year contained for the very first time a special thrust on measures for promoting and strengthening small tiny and village enterprises**

(A) 1956

(B) 1991

(C) 1948

(D) 1977

---

**46. Members of organizations are increasingly finding themselves facing situations in which they are required to define right and wrong conduct. It is most aptly called as following**

(A) Environmental issues of ethics

(B) Social responsibilities of business

(C) Corporate governance & ethics

(D) Ethical Dilemmas of business

---

**47. Situations in which individuals are required to define right and wrong conduct to be complied with are called as following**

(A) Ethical climate

(B) Ethical dilemmas

(C) Code of Ethics

(D) None of the above

---

**48. Arrange the following steps of a simple ethics programme**
**I. Walk the talk**
**II. Size up your company’s current ethics**
**III. Train your people**
**IV. Solicit feedback from your employees**
**V. Create a code of conduct**
**Code:**

(A) V, I, IV, II, III

(B) II, V, IV, III, I

(C) II, V, III, IV, I

(D) II, IV, III, II, I

---

**49. Who is involved in ‘Shoplifting’ from the following?**

(A) Producer

(B) Seller

(C) Consumer & or a customer

(D) None of the above

---

**50. Match List-I with List-II.**
**List – I (Ethical Issue)**
**I. Unsafe working conditions**
**II. Product safety**
**III. Environmental Pollution**
**IV. Following local laws**
**List – II (Stakeholder affected)**
**1. Customers**
**2. Society**
**3. Employees**
**4. Host Country**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 2 4 3 1

(B) 3 1 2 4

(C) 1 3 4 2

(D) 3 2 1 4

---
