**Note: This paper contains fifty (50) objective type questions, each question carrying two (2) marks. Attempt all the questions.**

---

**1. In the case of an inferior commodity, the income elasticity of demand is**

(A) Positive

(B) Unitary

(C) Negative

(D) Infinity

---

**2. The slope of the iso-cost line is determined by**

(A) Prices of the two factors

(B) Productivity of the two factors

(C) Degree of substitutability of the two factors

(D) None of these

---

**3. Which one of the following statements is correct or more nearly correct?**

(A) An increase in the price of commodity represents a fall in its value

(B) Value has nothing to do with the price

(C) If the price of a commodity falls, its value relative to other goods does not change

(D) The price of a good is its value measured in terms of money

---

**4. The important macro-economic aggregates are**

(A) Aggregate Consumption

(B) Gross Domestic Capital Formation

(C) Gross Domestic Savings and GNP

(D) All of the above

---

**5. Match the following**
**List – I**
**I. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by zero per cent**
**II. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by 5 per cent**
**III. For a given 10 per cent change in price demand changes by 10 per cent**
**IV. For a given 10 per cent change in price, demand changes by 20 per cent**
**List – II**
**1. e > 1**
**2. e = 1**
**3. e < 1**
**4. e = 0**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 3 1 2 4

(B) 4 3 2 1

(C) 1 2 3 4

(D) 2 3 1 4

---

**6. Long-lasting beliefs about what is important in a variety of situations, that guide our decisions and actions are :**

(A) values

(B) ethical dimensions

(C) priorities

(D) desires

---

**7. Figure – Ground Theory explains the process of**

(A) Cognition

(B) Sensation

(C) Perception

(D) Motivation

---

**8. Successive re-inforcements resulting in desired behaviour are**

(A) mentoring

(B) motivation

(C) shaping

(D) behaviour-modification

---

**9. Psychological contract is related to**

(A) job – person fit

(B) role – person fit

(C) organisation – person fit

(D) none of the above

---

**10. Equity is called as**

(A) equality of all

(B) standard performance

(C) comparative sense of justice to self

(D) none of the above

---

**11. The distinction between ‘job enrichment’ and ‘job enlargement’ is**

(A) semantics

(B) ‘job enrichment’ is vertical loading while ‘job enlargement’ is horizontal loading

(C) ‘job enrichment’ is the outgrowth of Hertzberg’s theory while ‘job enlargement’ is of Maslow’s orientation.

(D) ‘job enrichment’ is more for the individual and the other is more of organisation making

---

**12. In ‘delegation’**

(A) Only authority is delegated not responsibility

(B) Both authority and responsibility are delegated

(C) Only responsibility is delegated, not authority

(D) Neither responsibility, nor authority is delegated

---

**13. Cross-functional groups that operate across space, time and organisational boundaries with members who communicate mainly through information technologies are**

(A) telecomputers

(B) virtual teams

(C) teleworkers

(D) telemarketers

---

**14. Career resilience means**

(A) Ability to switch careers

(B) Ability to remain with same competencies refining suitably for organizations

(C) Lack of capacity to remain in career

(D) None of the above

---

**15. Lock out means**

(A) An antithesis of strike

(B) Refusal to employ any person in employment

(C) the temporary closing of a place of employment

(D) Illegal strike

---

**16. Which is the task of a finance manager?**

(A) Investment decision

(B) Dividend decision

(C) Management of income

(D) All of the above

---

**17. Which method of capital budgeting focuses on liquidity of a project?**

(A) Net present value

(B) Profitability index

(C) Payback period

(D) Internal rate of returns

---

**18. Which statement is true about deep discount bonds?**

(A) These are in the form of low interest bonds

(B) These bonds are sold at a discounted value and on maturity face value of the bond is paid to the investors

(C) There is no interest payout during lock-in period

(D) None of the above

---

**19. Financial leverage is**

(A) EBIT / Sales × 100

(B) EBIT / EBT

(C) Sales / Fixed Assets

(D) Profit / Sales × Capital

---

**20. Match the following**
**List-I (items / method)**
**I. Rate of return method**
**II. Purchase consideration**
**III. Diminishing Balance Method**
**IV. Fifo Method**
**List – II (used / Application)**
**1. Capital budgeting**
**2. Merger**
**3. Depreciation**
**4. Stock valuation**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 1 3 2 4

(B) 3 2 4 1

(C) 1 2 3 4

(D) 1 4 3 2

---

**21. Arrange the following steps of a five-stage model of the consumer buying process:**
**I. Evaluation of Alternatives**
**II. Need Arousal**
**III. Information search**
**IV. Purchase Decision**
**V. Post Purchase behaviour**
**Code**

(A) IV, II, III, I, V

(B) III, II, I, IV, V

(C) I, II, IV, III, V

(D) II, III, I, IV, V

---

**22. It refers to the total number of items in the Product Mix. It is known as following.**

(A) The width of product mix

(B) The length of product mix

(C) The depth of product mix

(D) The consistency of product mix

---

**23. Given below are two statements, one labelled as Assertion (A), and the other labelled as Reason (R). State the correct answer from code given below.**
**Assertion (A) : Pure-click companies can be search engines, Internet service providers, commerce sites, transaction sites, content sites and enabler sites.**
**Reason (R) : Pure-click companies are those companies that have launched a website without any previous existence as a firm.**
**Code :**

(A) (A) is correct, but (R) is wrong.

(B) Both (A) and (R) are correct.

(C) (A) is wrong, but (R) is correct.

(D) Both (A) and (R) are wrong.

---

**24. Match List-I and List-II.**
**List – I (Characteristics of Services)**
**I. Intangibility**
**II. Inseparability**
**III. Variability**
**IV. Perishability**
**List – II (Marketing Strategy applied considering a characteristic of service)**
**1. Preparing a service blue print showing each service and process in a flow chart.**
**2. Tangiblize the intangible**
**3. To train more service providers and build up client confidence.**
**4. Use differential pricing**
**Code :**
**I II III IV**

(A) 2 1 3 4

(B) 2 3 1 4

(C) 1 3 2 4

(D) 2 1 4 3

---

**25. A diverse collection of incentive tools designed to stimulate quicker buying of a particular product or service by consumers or the trade is known as**

(A) Advertising

(B) Personal selling

(C) Publicity

(D) Sales promotion

---

**26. Which of the following departments is not directly affected by the facilities location decision?**

(A) Production / operations

(B) Marketing

(C) Personnel

(D) Finance

---

**27. Ship building and construction of dams and bridges are typical examples of**

(A) Fixed position layout

(B) Functional layout

(C) Product layout

(D) Project type layout

---

**28. If unit item cost = Rs. 10, monthly carrying charge = 3 per cent, monthly demand = 100 units and ordering cost = Rs. 20 per order, the EOQ is :**

(A) 11.45

(B) 400

(C) 115.4

(D) 33.3

---

**29. In managing a project, a network is better suited than Gantt chart because**

(A) It can be updated more easily

(B) It clearly brings out the interdependencies between the different activities

(C) Both (A) and (B)

(D) None of the above

---

**30. The aggregate production plan spans**

(A) Short time horizon

(B) Intermediate time horizon

(C) Long time horizon

(D) None of the above

---

**31. The probability that a contractor will get a plumbing contract is 2/3 and that he will get an electric contract is 4/9. If the probability of his getting at least one of the two contracts is 4/5, then the probability that he will get both contracts is**

(A) 10/45

(B) 8/27

(C) 14/45

(D) 26/45

---

**32. If a random variable X follows Poisson distribution such that P(X = 1) = P(X = 2), then the mean of the distribution is**

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---

**33. The value of R1.23 lies between**

(A) −1 and +1

(B) −1 and 0.0

(C) 0.0 and +1

(D) −0.5 and +0.5

---

**34. A source programme is**

(A) a programme written in machine language

(B) a programme to be translated into machine language

(C) the machine language translation of a programme written in high-level language

(D) none of the above

---

**35. Processing data in groups collected over periods of time is known as**

(A) Time-sharing

(B) Batch processing

(C) Real-time processing

(D) Multi-processing

---

**36. “We must forget to learn and learn forgetting” is ascribed to**

(A) Tom Peters

(B) Peter F. Drucker

(C) Abraham S. Maslow

(D) Garry Hamel

---

**37. In highly competitive environment an organization to achieve sustained success should be**

(A) Better

(B) Bigger

(C) Resilient

(D) None of the above

---

**38. Corporate governance is about**

(A) Crafting the strategy

(B) Compliance with regulatory regime

(C) Satisfying the stakeholders

(D) governing the company in the interest of government in power

---

**39. Strategic planning is about**

(A) Strategic thinking

(B) Strategic programming

(C) Tactical Planning

(D) Portfolio Planning

---

**40. If two or more companies are merged and only one of them survives while others loose their independent entity, it is referred to as**

(A) Merger

(B) Absorption

(C) Amalgamation

(D) Combination

---

**41. The MSMED Act, 2006 classified enterprises broadly into**

(A) Two categories
(i) Manufacturing enterprises and
(ii) Service enterprises

(B) Three categories
(i) Micro enterprises
(ii) Small enterprises
(iii) Medium enterprises

(C) Four categories
(i) Micro enterprises
(ii) Small enterprises
(iii) Tiny enterprises
(iv) Medium enterprises

(D) Four categories
(i) Tiny enterprises
(ii) Micro enterprises
(iii) Small business enterprises
(iv) Medium enterprises

---

**42. Which sector is called as Primary Sector in India?**

(A) Industrial sector

(B) Service sector

(C) External sector

(D) Agricultural sector

---

**43. How many times the census of registered Micro, small and medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have been made by Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO)?**

(A) 1

(B) 2

(C) 3

(D) 4

---

**44. EDII is situated at**

(A) New Delhi

(B) Ahmedabad

(C) Patna

(D) Kolkata

---

**45. Industrial Policy of which year contained for the very first time a special thrust on measures for promoting and strengthening small tiny and village enterprises**

(A) 1956

(B) 1991

(C) 1948

(D) 1977

---

**46. Members of organizations are increasingly finding themselves facing situations in which they are required to define right and wrong conduct. It is most aptly called as following**

(A) Environmental issues of ethics

(B) Social responsibilities of business

(C) Corporate governance & ethics

(D) Ethical Dilemmas of business

---

**47. Situations in which individuals are required to define right and wrong conduct to be complied with are called as following**

(A) Ethical climate

(B) Ethical dilemmas

(C) Code of Ethics

(D) None of the above

---

**48. Arrange the following steps of a simple ethics programme**
**I. Walk the talk**
**II. Size up your company’s current ethics**
**III. Train your people**
**IV. Solicit feedback from your employees**
**V. Create a code of conduct**
**Code:**

(A) V, I, IV, II, III

(B) II, V, IV, III, I

(C) II, V, III, IV, I

(D) II, IV, III, II, I

---

**49. Who is involved in ‘Shoplifting’ from the following?**

(A) Producer

(B) Seller

(C) Consumer & or a customer

(D) None of the above

---

**50. Match List-I with List-II.**
**List – I (Ethical Issue)**
**I. Unsafe working conditions**
**II. Product safety**
**III. Environmental Pollution**
**IV. Following local laws**
**List – II (Stakeholder affected)**
**1. Customers**
**2. Society**
**3. Employees**
**4. Host Country**
**Code:**
**I II III IV**

(A) 2 4 3 1

(B) 3 1 2 4

(C) 1 3 4 2

(D) 3 2 1 4

---
