Question 51
The variety of approaches to management analysis, the amount of research and the number of different views have resulted in much confusion as to what management is, what management theory and science is and how managerial events should be analysed. Who called this situation 'the management theory jungle' ?
1. Chester Barnard
2. Elton Mayo
3. Harold Koontz
4. Henry L. Gantt

---
Question 52
Who is known as the 'Father of brainstorming' ?
1. Alex F. Osborn
2. Frank Gilbreeth
3. Elton Mayo
4. Peter Drucker

---
Question 53
In the case of an Executive Chairman, what is the minimum percentage of Independent Directors required on the Board ?
1. At least one-third
2. At least half
3. At least one-fourth
4. At least two-thirds

---
Question 54
What is the minimum prescribed net profit threshold for Companies to be required to undertake Corporate Social Responsibility activities under clause 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 ?
1. 1% of net profit
2. 2% of net profit
3. 3% of net profit
4. 5% of net profit

---
Question 55
Who argued that 'Attitude follow behavior' ?
1. Leon Festinger
2. Elton Mayo
3. Mary P. Follet
4. F. Herzberg

---
Question 56
What represents basic convictions that 'a specific mode of conduct or end-state of existence is personally or socially preferable to an opposite or converse mode of conduct or end-state of existence' ?
1. Ethics
2. Belief
3. Values
4. Personality

---
Question 57
"Demonstrating statistically a relationship between scores on a selection procedure and job performance of a sample of workers" is called :
1. Content Validity
2. Construct Validity
3. Criterion Validity
4. Test Validity

---
Question 58
Likert had proposed only six dimensions of organisational climate. Who proposed seven steps of organisational climate ?
1. Litwin and Stringer
2. Schein
3. Kluckhohn and strodtbeck
4. Hofstede

---
Question 59
Which types of employees are included in the definition of IHRM by P. Morgan ?
(A) Host-Country Nationals
(B) Parent Country Nationals
(C) Third Country Nationals
(D) Domestic Country Nationals
1. (A), (B) Only
2. (A), (B), (C) Only
3. (B), (C), (D) Only
4. (A), (B), (C), (D) Only

---
Question 60
What should be the maximum size of numbers of representatives in the Joint Management Council ?
1. Six only
2. Twelve only
3. Sixteen only
4. Twenty only

---
Question 61
Performance appraisal too often degenerates into a dishonest annual rituals," who stated this ?
1. Armstrong and Murlis
2. Newton and Findlay
3. Barlow
4. Grint

---
Question 62
Who has authored the book "the Third Wave" ?
1. Hammel and Prahlad
2. Toffler
3. Aldrich
4. Nilkant and Ram Narayan

---
Question 63
Which one of the following is correct Accounting Equation ?
1. Assets = Liabilities - Capital
2. Capital = Assets + Liabilities
3. Liabilities = Capital + Assets
4. Liabilities = Assets - Capital

---
Question 64
Which is the value of P/V Ratio ? (Sales Period I 700000, Period II 900000; Profit Period I -10000, Period II 10000)
1. 10%
2. 20%
3. 30%
4. 25%

---
Question 65
If Current Ratio = 2.5, Liquid Ratio = 1.5, Working Capital = Rs. 90,000. What is the value of Inventory ?
1. Rs. 60,000
2. Rs. 90,000
3. Rs. 1,50,000
4. Rs. 2,10,000

---
Question 66
In case of financial enterprises, cash flow arisen from flow dividend received and paid is shown in cash statement under-which one of the following activities ?
1. Operating Activities.
2. Financing Activities.
3. Investing Activities.
4. Dividend received is operating activities and divided paid is financing activities.

---
Question 67
Which one of the following is correct about NPV and IRR of project (A) and project (B) ?
1. NPV (A) + NPV (B) = NPV of (A+B)
2. NPV (A) = NPV (B) != NPV of (A+B)
3. IRR (A) + IRR (B) = IRR of (A+B)
4. IRR (A) x IRR (B) != IRR (A-B)

---
Question 68
Which one of the following is characterised in the interest rate parity ?
1. The exchange rate between the currencies of two countries equal the ratio between the price of goods in these countries.
2. The forward rate must be equal to the expected future spot rate.
3. Nominal interest rate differential must be equal to the expected inflation rate differential in the two countries.
4. The relationship between interest rates and exchange rate of two countries.

---
Question 69
Company's current price of share is Rs 60 and dividend per share is Rs. 4. If its capitalisation rate is 12 percents. What is dividend growth rate ?
1. 10%
2. 20%
3. 3.2%
4. 5%

---
Question 70
Gross working capital refers to firms :
1. Total Current Assets
2. The difference between current assets and current liabilities.
3. Total liquid assets
4. Total investment in the firms

---
Question 71
As per Henry Mintsberg, which of the following is NOT a part of his conception of types of strategies ?
1. Intended Strategy
2. Unrealised Strategy
3. Contingency Strategy
4. Emergent Strategy

---
Question 72
As per Ries and Trout, which one of the following is NOT a standerd criteria for successful positioning ?
1. Competitiveness
2. Consistency
3. Credibility
4. Commitment

---
Question 73
The Parenting Fit Matrix related to Strategy Formulation was proposed by -
1. T.L Wheelan, T D Hunger & K Ranganjan
2. M. Alexander, A Cambell & M Goold
3. G.D. Harrell, R.O Kieper & A Cambell
4. G Hammel, L. Segel & A C Inkpen

---
Question 74
Which of the following is one of the five main factors given by E. M. Rogers that influence adoption of an innovation ?
1. Accountability
2. Trialibility
3. Flexibility
4. Salability

---
Question 75
Consumers who are open to new ideas and are among the first to try new products, services or practices are called as -
1. Dogmatic
2. Laggards
3. Innovators
4. Early Majority

---
Question 76
'Making the brand a meaningful part of consumers conversations and likes by fostering direct and continuous customer involvement in shaping brand conversations, experiencies and community'. The above description pertains to which of the following concepts ?
1. Customer Generated Marketing
2. Societal Marketing Concept
3. Customer Relationship Management
4. Customer Engagement Marketing

---
Question 77
'A channel structure in which producers, wholesalers, and retailers act as a unified system. One channel member owns the others, has contracts with them or has so much power that they all cooperate.' ? The above description pentains to which of the following concepts ?
1. Conventional Distribution Channel
2. Vertical Marketing System
3. Franchise System
4. Horizontal Marketing System

---
Question 78
'A furnishing retailer company opens a new generation of furniture galleries that are part store, part interior design studio and part restaurant'. This is an example of which of the following ?
1. Franchise Retailing
2. Experiencial Retailing
3. Departmental Store Retailing
4. Mega Retailing

---
Question 79
The Contingency table in statistics is one :
1. That consists of rows and columns that is used to classify data on two dimensions.
2. That summarizes the number of measurements which are less than the upper-class boundary of each class.
3. That summarizes the percentage of items (or measurement) in each of several non-overlapping classes.
4. That displays points representing each class frequency above their class midpoints.

---
Question 80
The primary difference between CPM and PERT is that :
1. PERT has one time estimate and CPM has three time estimates.
2. PERT has two time estimates and CPM has three time estimates.
3. PERT has three time estimates and CPM requires only one time factor for each activity.
4. PERT makes the assumption that activities time are known with certainty and CPM employs three time estimates to compute expected values.

---
Question 81
What is the major assumption we make when computing a mean form Grouped data :
1. All values are discrete.
2. Every value in a class is equal to the midpoint.
3. Each class contains exactly the same number of values.
4. No value occurs more than once.

---
Question 82
What shall be the transportation cost if a researcher uses North-West Corner Rule to get the basic feasible solution to the following : 
(Distribution Centers D1, D2, D3, D4; Supply for S1, S2, S3)
1. 112
2. 102
3. 105
4. 116

---
Question 83
Which of the following Industry 4.0 technologies shall detect temperature, humidity and vibration changes, enabling avoidance of system malfunction and human protection in Oil and Gas Industry ?
1. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
2. Internet of Things (IOT)
3. Big Data
4. Machine Learning (ML)

---
Question 84
To support Indian Artificial Intelligence (AI) Startups, which technological infrastructure is expected to be developed by Government of India ?
1. Creation of EPZ
2. Creation of GPU Clusters
3. Creation of SPZ Clusters
4. Creation of IT Parks

---
Question 85
After 10 years of deadlock, European Union (EU) is ready to negotiate with India in WTO on which issue related to food security ?
1. Public Stockholding Norms
2. Climate Change
3. Non-tariff barriers to trade
4. Sanitary & Phytosanitary measures

---
Question 86
G20 Summit (2023) Proposed which Economic corridor including shipping and rail lines ?
1. IMEE (India Middle East Europe Economic Corridor)
2. BRI (Bolt and Road Initiative)
3. CMREC (China Mongolia Russia Economic Corridor)
4. NELB (New Eurasian Land Bridge (Corridor))

---
Question 87
"Innovation is the specific instruments of entrepreneurship-the act that endows resources with a new capacity to create wealth" who said this ?
1. Peter Drucker
2. J. A. Shumpeter
3. Frank H. Knight
4. Frank W. Young

---
Question 88
In which institutions of women entrepreneurship Jyoti Jeevan Naik was associated ?
1. Shri Mahila Griha Udyog Lijjat Papad
2. Sahkari Mahila Gram Samittee
3. Jivika
4. Self-employed Women's Association

---
Question 89
Which type of Intrapreneur is known for generating innovative ideas and seeking ways to improve processes ?
1. Employee Intrapreneur
2. Doers Intrapreneur
3. Creator Intrapreneur
4. Implementers Intrapreneur

---
Question 90
Fixing the zero date is important step in establishing a project -
1. Priliminary steps
2. Secondary steps
3. Definition steps
4. Last steps

---
Question 91
What is NOT a misuse of committees ?
(A) Authority
(B) Membership
(C) Replacement for a manager
(D) For decisions beyond participants authority
1. (C) and (D) only
2. (A) and (B) only
3. (C) and (A) only
4. (A) and (D) only

---
Question 92
Two sets of theories are popular in the organisational behavior literature - The Behavioral and Cognitive. Behavioral theory constitutes of :
(A) Classical conditioning
(B) Operant conditioning
(C) Perceived consequences
(D) Social learning
(E) Prior learning
1. (A), (B) and (C) only
2. (A), (B) and (D) only
3. (B), (C) and (E) only
4. (B), (C) and (D) only

---
Question 93
The techniques for appraising performance include :
(A) Graphic Rating Scale Method
(B) Potential Rating
(C) Alternation Ranking Method
(D) Diversity Counts
(E) Paired Comparison Method
1. (A), (B) and (D) only
2. (B), (C) and (D) only
3. (C), (D) and (E) only
4. (A), (C) and (E) only

---
Question 94
Which of the following are four stages of Psychosexual Development for personality development according to Freud ?
(A) Oral
(B) Anal
(C) Phallic
(D) Meticulous
(E) Genital
1. (A), (B), (C), (D) Only
2. (A), (B), (C), (E) Only
3. (B), (C), (D), (E) Only
4. (A), (C), (D), (E) Only

---
Question 95
Which of the following consists of broad model of HRM/HRD ?
(A) Hard variant of HRM (Matching Model of HRM)
(B) Soft variant of HRM (Harvard Model HRM)
(C) 5P Model of HRM (Model of strategic HRM)
(D) Business Strategic Model of HRM (Business School Model)
1. (A) and (B) only
2. (B) and (C) only
3. (A), (B) and (C) only
4. (B), (C) and (D) only

---
Question 96
Which of the following summarised under three Cs for human resource development ?
(A) Competence
(B) Communication
(C) Commitment
(D) Culture
1. (A), (B) and (C) only
2. (A), (C) and (D) only
3. (B), (C) and (D) only
4. (A), (B) and (D) only

---
Question 97
Which of the following are cash from financing activities of ?
(A) Cash receipt from issue of share
(B) Cash payment for buy-back of share
(C) Brokerage paid for acquisition of fixed assets
(D) Payment of cash dividend
(E) Cash receipt of interest and dividend on Long-term investment
1. (A), (B) and (C) only
2. (A), (C) and (D) only
3. (B), (C) and (D) only
4. (A), (B) and (D) only

---
Question 98
Which of the following related to Combined Leverage (CL)
(A) CL = Contribution / PBT
(B) CL = EBIT / PBT
(C) CL = Contribution / EBT
(D) CL = % Change in EPS / % Change in sales
(E) CL = Operating leverage x Financial leverage
1. (A), (B) and (E) only
2. (B), (C) and (E) only
3. (A), (D) and (E) only
4. (A), (B) and (C) only

---
Question 99
Which of the following are assumption of Net Operating Income Approach of Capital Structure ?
(A) There is no Corporate Tax
(B) Cost of debt remain constant at all level
(C) The Business risk remain constant every level of debt and equity mix
(D) The cost of Debt is less than cost of equity
(E) Overall cost of Capital remain constant
1. (A), (B) and (C) only
2. (A) and (B) only
3. (C), (D) and (E) only
4. (A), (B), (C) and (E) only

---
Question 100
Which of the following reasons may be attributed to the individuals time preference for money ?
(A) Risk
(B) Value of money would be increased
(C) Future uncertainties
(D) Preference for consumption
(E) Investment opportunities
1. (A), (B), and (C) Only
2. (B), (C), and (D) Only
3. (A), (C), (D) and (E) Only
4. (A), (D), and (E) Only

---
Question 101
Which of the following assumptions are based on Walter's Model of dividend ?
(A) Internal Financing
(B) 100 percent pay out ratio
(C) The firm has a short term life
(D) Constant EPS and dividend per Share (DIV)
(E) Increasing return and minimise cost of Capital
1. (A), (B) and (C) Only
2. (A), (C) and (D) Only
3. (B), (D) and (E) Only
4. (A), (B) and (D) Only

---
Question 102
Which of the following strategies are types of combination strategies ?
(A) No change strategies
(B) Pause/Proceed with caution strategies
(C) Term around strategies
(D) Profit strategies
(E) Concentration strategies
1. (B) and (C) Only
2. (E) and (D) Only
3. (A) and (B) Only
4. None of the above

---
Question 103
Which of the following are the important principles of Re-engineering according to Michael Hammer ?
(A) Develop value added jobs to balance out job elimination.
(B) Take specific actions to make the program operational.
(C) Subsume information processing work into the real work that produces the information.
(D) Develop action plan of activities needed to achieve the objectives.
(E) Treat geographically dispersed resources as though they were centralised.
1. (A) and (C) Only
2. (B) and (D) Only
3. (C) and (E) Only
4. (B) and (E) Only

---
Question 104
Which of the following are unique features of services ?
(A) Services are non-perishable.
(B) Services have inseparability of production and consumption.
(C) Services have the quality of perfect standardization.
(D) Services have the characteristic of Variability.
(E) Services are highly tangible so can be touched.
1. (A) and (D) Only
2. (A) and (C) Only
3. (C) and (D) Only
4. (A) and (E) Only

---
Question 105
Which of the following are the main issues to be tackled by the conceptual component of Customer Relationship Management Programme ?
(A) Processing all customer requests coming in through multiple channels.
(B) Setting out the CRM objectives in clear terms.
(C) Creating a good product and mass marketing it.
(D) Putting customers first.
(E) Segmenting the market on the basis of occupations.
1. (B) and (D) Only
2. (A) and (E) Only
3. (C) and (D) Only
4. (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 106
'Creating a seamless cross-channel buying experience that integrates in-stone, online, and mobile shopping. The above is the description of which of the following ?
(A) In store Marketing
(B) Direct Marketing
(C) Omni Channel Retailing
(D) Online Marketing
(E) Digital Marketing
1. (D) Only
2. (C) Only
3. (A) and (B) Only
4. (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 107
The location focus for service firms should be on determining the volume of Customers and Revenue. The major determinants of volume of Customers and Revenue are :
(A) Service and image compatibility with demographics of the customer drawing area.
(B) Proximity to raw materials and suppliers.
(C) Quality of the competion.
(D) Uniqueness of the firm's and competitor's location.
(E) Operating Policies of the competitor
1. (A), (C) and (E) Only
2. (C), (D) and (E) Only
3. (A), (C) and (D) Only
4. (B), (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 108
Six Sigma is :
(A) a strategy that focuses on total customer satisfaction.
(B) a mathematical function that connects quality lost and cost.
(C) a program to reduce defects.
(D) a disciplines that follows DMAIC model.
1. (A) and (D) Only
2. (B) and (C) Only
3. (A), (C) and (D) Only
4. (B), (C) and (D) Only

---
Question 109
For making a single-channel, single-phase queuing models, which of the following assumption are involved -
(A) Every arrival waits to be served regardless of the length of the time.
(B) Arrival are independent of preceding arrivals, but the average number of arrivals does not change over time.
(C) Arrival come from a finite or very small population on LIFO basis
(D) Service times follow the negative expantial distribution or are constant.
(E) The average service rate is greater than the average arrival rate.
1. (A), (B) and (C) Only
2. (A), (B), (C) and (D) Only
3. (A), (B), (D) and (E) Only
4. (B), (C), (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 110
Conditions under which companies may find more advantages to locate production in foreign countries than export to them are :
(A) When production abroad is costlier than at home ?
(B) When transportation costs are too high for moving goods or services internationally ?
(C) When companies lack domestic capacity ?
(D) When government inhibit the import of foreign products ?
(E) When products and services need not be altered substantially to gain sufficient consumer demand abroad ?
1. (A), (B) and (D) Only
2. (B), (C) and (D) Only
3. (C), (D) and (E) Only
4. (E), (A) and (B) Only

---
Question 111
Which of the following statements are correct about International Trade Theories ?
(A) According to mercantilism, countries should import more than they export.
(B) A country that practices neo-mercantilism attempts to run, export surplus to achieve a social or political objective.
(C) Theory of absolute advantage reasoned that restricted trade would lead country to specialize in those products that gave it a competitive advantage.
(D) According to theory of comparative advantage gains from trade will occur even in a country that has absolute advantage in all products because the country must give up less efficient output to produce more efficient output.
1. (A) and (C) Only
2. (B) and (C) Only
3. (C) and (D) Only
4. (B) and (D) Only

---
Question 112
Which of the followings are the national financial institutions ?
(A) Industrial Development Bank of India
(B) Industrial Finance Corporation of India
(C) The State Industrial Development Corporation
(D) United Nations Development Programme
(E) State Financial Corporations.
1. (A), (B) and (C) Only
2. (B), (C) and (D) Only
3. (A), (B), (C) and (E) Only
4. (A), (C), (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 113
Co-operative credit system in India mainly consists of :
(A) the short-term agricultural credit institutions.
(B) the long term agricultural credit institutions.
(C) the non-agricultural credit co-operatives.
(D) the short term industrial credit institutions.
1. (A), (B) Only
2. (A), (B) and (C) Only
3. (B), (C) and (D) Only
4. (A), (C) and (D) Only

---
Question 114
Which of the following are methods of assessment of economic viability of the project ?
(A) Pay Back Period (PBP)
(B) Return on Investment (ROI)
(C) Net Present Value (NPV)
(D) Benefit cost Ratio (BCR)
(E) Critical Path Method (CPM)
1. (A), (B) and (C) Only
2. (A), (B), (C) and (D) Only
3. (B), (C), (D) and (E) Only
4. (A), (C), (D) and (E) Only

---
Question 115
Given below are two statements :
Statement (I) : The adaptation of leadership styles to different contingencies has been well characterised by Robert Tannenbaum and Warren H. Schmidt, developers of leadership continuum concept.
Statement (II) : They see leadership as involving variety of styles, ranging from one that is highly boss-oriented to one that is highly subordinate centered.
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---
Question 116
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Theory/Approach
(A) Operational Management
(B) Behavioral Approach
(C) Social Systems Approach
(D) 7-S Approach
List - II Proponders
(I) McKinsey
(II) Wilfredo Pareto
(III) Henri Fayol
(IV) Elton Mayo
1. (A)-(III), (B)-(II), (C)-(IV), (D)-(I)
2. (A)-(I), (B)-(II), (C)-(III), (D)-(IV)
3. (A)-(III), (B)-(IV), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
4. (A)-(I), (B)-(IV), (C)-(III), (D)-(II)

---
Question 117
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Motivational Theory
(A) Need Hierarchy Theory
(B) Two-Factor Theory
(C) Expectancy Theory
(D) Theory of X vs Y
List - II Proponder
(I) Fedrick Herzberg
(II) Abraham H. Maslow
(III) Douglas MC Gregar
(IV) V.H. Vroom
1. (A)-(I), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(IV)
2. (A)-(II), (B)-(I), (C)-(IV), (D)-(III)
3. (A)-(III), (B)-(I), (C)-(II), (D)-(IV)
4. (A)-(IV), (B)-(II), (C)-(I), (D)-(III)

---
Question 118
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Employers Attitude
(A) My Boat Attitude
(B) Shared Boat Attitude
(C) Our Boat Attitude
(D) Your Boat Attitude
List - II Appropriate Meaning
(I) Get off, if you do not like it.
(II) It is our own common enterprise, Let us combine our efforts to better it.
(III) We Sail together. Do not rock the boat.
(IV) With a sense of ownership and pride, the purpose is to let employees whole heartedly contribute to the cause of the enterprise.
1. (A)-(I), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(IV)
2. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(I), (D)-(IV)
3. (A)-(IV), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
4. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(IV), (D)-(I)

---
Question 119
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Accounting Standard
(A) Ind AS - 1
(B) Ind AS - 7
(C) Ind AS - 16
(D) Ind AS - 18
List - II Related Concept
(I) Cash Flow Statement
(II) Presentation of Financial Statement
(III) Revenue recognition
(IV) Property Plant and Equipment
1. (A)-(I), (B)-(II), (C)-(III), (D)-(IV)
2. (A)-(II), (B)-(I), (C)-(IV), (D)-(III)
3. (A)-(II), (B)-(I), (C)-(III), (D)-(IV)
4. (A)-(I), (B)-(II), (C)-(IV), (D)-(III)

---
Question 120
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Concept
(A) Divestitures
(B) Pac-man defence
(C) Spin-off
(D) Split-up
List - II Meaning
(I) The parent firm no longer exists.
(II) Does not bring any cash to the parent company.
(III) Selling of some of assets of the firm.
(IV) Target company making a counter bid for raiders company.
1. (A)-(IV), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
2. (A)-(III), (B)-(IV), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
3. (A)-(III), (B)-(IV), (C)-(I), (D)-(II)
4. (A)-(I), (B)-(II), (C)-(III), (D)-(IV)

---
Question 121
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Tools
(A) Balance Score Card
(B) TOWS Matrix
(C) Product/Market Evolution Matrix
(D) VRIO Frame Work
List - II Proposed by
(I) Heing weitrich
(II) C.W. Hofer
(III) Roberts Kaplan and David P. Norton
(IV) Jay Barney
1. (A)-(II), (B)-(I), (C)-(IV), (D)-(III)
2. (A)-(III), (B)-(I), (C)-(II), (D)-(IV)
3. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(IV), (D)-(I)
4. (A)-(IV), (B)-(II), (C)-(III), (D)-(I)

---
Question 122
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Decision Rule
(A) Conjunctive
(B) Disjunctive
(C) Affect Referred
(D) Majority vote
List - II Rationale for applying the decision Rule to Down App.
(I) "I bought the Smartphone App with the highest over all railing".
(II) "I down loaded the Smartphone App that had the most downloads".
(III) "I selected the Smart Phone App that had no bad features".
(IV) "I picked the Smart Phone App that excelled in at least one attribute".
1. (A)-(IV), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
2. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(IV), (D)-(I)
3. (A)-(III), (B)-(IV), (C)-(I), (D)-(II)
4. (A)-(I), (B)-(IV), (C)-(II), (D)-(III)

---
Question 123
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Inspection Process
(A) Operator doing his job properly and self check at the point of production or purchase.
(B) That classifies items as being either good or defective.
(C) Assisted by the use of check list and controls such as fail - safe device that ensures production of a good unit every time.
(D) Classification of items as falling continuum scale such as dimension or strength
List - II Inspection Type
(I) Poka-Yoke
(II) Source Inspection
(III) Variable Inspection
(IV) Attribute Inspection
1. (A)-(III), (B)-(II), (C)-(IV), (D)-(I)
2. (A)-(III), (B)-(II), (C)-(I), (D)-(IV)
3. (A)-(II), (B)-(IV), (C)-(I), (D)-(III)
4. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(I), (D)-(IV)

---
Question 124
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Data Warehouse Types Concept
(A) Data Marts
(B) Operational Data Store
(C) Enterprise Data Warehouse
(D) Metadata
List - II Functions Meaning of Data Ware Houses
(I) Provides a fairly recent form of customer information file and is used as interim staging area.
(II) Provides integration of data from many sources into a standard format.
(III) Describe the structure and some meaning about data
(IV) Subset of a data warehouse, typically consisting of a single subject area
1. (A)-(IV), (B)-(I), (C)-(II), (D)-(III)
2. (A)-(IV), (B)-(I), (C)-(III), (D)-(II)
3. (A)-(I), (B)-(IV), (C)-(II), (D)-(III)
4. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(I), (D)-(IV)

---
Question 125
Match List - I with List - II.
List - I Name of Theories of Entrepreneurship
(A) Theory of Opportunities and Innovation.
(B) Theory of Charge.
(C) Theory of Religious Beliefs.
(D) Theory of Entrepreneurship Supply.
List - II Proponder
(I) Frank W. Young
(II) Peter F. Drucker
(III) John H. Kunkel
(IV) Max Weber
1. (A)-(II), (B)-(I), (C)-(IV), (D)-(III)
2. (A)-(I), (B)-(II), (C)-(III), (D)-(IV)
3. (A)-(IV), (B)-(III), (C)-(II), (D)-(I)
4. (A)-(II), (B)-(III), (C)-(I), (D)-(IV)

---
Question 126
Arrange the steps of process of learning in proper order :
(A) Acquiring Knowledge
(B) Internalization of new knowledge
(C) Using learning on all situation
(D) Assimilation or retention
(E) Application of new learning
(F) Self-monitored learning
1. (A), (D), (B), (E), (C), (F)
2. (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F)
3. (A), (C), (B), (D), (E), (F)
4. (B), (D), (F), (C), (A), (E)

---
Question 127
There exists certain requirements for effective control. Arrange the requirements from later to initial as proposed by Koontz and Weihrich.
(A) Tailoring controls to individual managers.
(B) Fitting the control system to the organisational culture.
(C) Making sure that control point up exceptions at critical point.
(D) Seeking objectivity of controls.
1. (B), (A), (C), (D)
2. (B), (C), (D), (A)
3. (B), (A), (D), (C)
4. (B), (D), (C), (A)

---
Question 128
Arrange the Indian Trade Unions/Associations according to their formation/establishment from erlier to latter.
(A) Madras Labour Union
(B) Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh
(C) The Indian National Trade Union Congress
(D) All India Trade Union Congress
(E) The Red Trade Union Congress
1. (A), (C), (B), (D), (E) Only
2. (A), (D), (E), (C), (B) Only
3. (B), (A), (C), (D), (E) Only
4. (D), (A), (E), (C), (B) Only

---
Question 129
Arrange the following steps of the Budgeting process in the proper sequence :
(A) Obtaining estimates
(B) Communicating Budget
(C) Reporting Interim Progress towards budget objectives
(D) Implementing the budget plan
(E) Co-ordinating estimate
1. (B), (A), (E), (D), (C) Only
2. (A), (E), (C), (B), (D) Only
3. (A), (E), (B), (C), (D) Only
4. (A), (E), (B), (D), (C) Only

---
Question 130
Arrange the following process of working capital cycle of manufacturing concern in a proper sequence :
(A) Raw material
(B) Cash
(C) Debtars
(D) Finish goods
(E) Work in progress
1. (B), (A), (E), (D), (C) Only
2. (A), (E), (B), (C), (D) Only
3. (A), (E), (D), (B), (C) Only
4. (A), (E), (D), (C), (B) Only

---
Question 131
Arrange the following stages of international development in sequential ascending order.
(A) Primarily domestic company with international division
(B) Domestic company
(C) Multinational corporation with global emphasis
(D) Multinational corporation with multidomestic emphasis
(E) Domestic company with export division
1. (E), (B), (C), (A), (D) Only
2. (B), (E), (A), (D), (C) Only
3. (B), (E), (A), (C), (D) Only
4. (B), (A), (E), (D), (C) Only

---
Question 132
Put in sequence the four steps to convert the raw real-world data into minable data sets :
(A) Data Cleaning
(B) Data Reduction
(C) Data Transformation
(D) Data Consolidation
1. (B), (A), (C), (D) Only
2. (D), (A), (C), (B) Only
3. (A), (D), (C), (B) Only
4. (B), (C), (A), (D) Only

---
Question 133
Arrange the Project Life Cycle Phases in proper order :
(A) Concept Phase
(B) Planning and Organising Phase
(C) Definition Phase
(D) Implementation Phase
(E) Project Clean-up Phase
1. (A), (C), (B), (D), (E) Only
2. (A), (B), (C), (D), (E) Only
3. (C), (A), (B), (D), (E) Only
4. (A), (D), (C), (B), (E) Only

---
Question 134
The objective of Scheduling is to allocate and prioritize demand to available facilities, the Scheduling decisions ranges from years to minutes/hours/days. Arrange the following Scheduling decisions :
(A) Aggregate Planning
(B) Short-term Scheduling
(C) Master Schedule
(D) Capacity Planning
1. (B), (A), (C), (D) Only
2. (D), (A), (C), (B) Only
3. (A), (D), (C), (B) Only
4. (B), (C), (A), (D) Only

---
Question 135
Arrange the following components of Value-Delivery Process in proper sequence from 1st to 6th step.
(A) Communicating the Value
(B) Enhancing the Value (including sustaining the value)
(C) Capturing the value back from the market (through pricing)
(D) Delivering the value
(E) Selecting the value (including exploring the value)
(F) Creating the Value
1. (E), (F), (A), (D), (C), (B) Only
2. (F), (B), (D), (E), (A), (C) Only
3. (E), (F), (C), (D), (A), (B) Only
4. (A), (E), (F), (B), (C), (D) Only

---
Question 136
Given below are two statements :
Statement (I) : Planning premises are defined as the anticipated environment in which plans are expected to operate. They inlcude assumptions or forecasts of the future ans known conditions that will affect the operation of plans.
Statement (II) : No distinction should be drawn between forecasts that are planning premises and forecasts that are translated into future expectancies, usually in financial terms, from actual plans developed.
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---
Question 137
Given below are two statements :
Statement (I) : Organisation Development Interventions are sets structured activities in which selected organisational units engage in a sequence of tasks that will lead to organisational improvement.
Statement (II) : The range of Organisation Development interventions is quite extensive. Interventions have been developed to solve most problems related to the human side of organisations.
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---
Question 138
Given below are two statements :
Statement (I) : Economic exposure refers to the change in the value of firm caused by unexpected changes in the exchange rate.
Statement (II) : Transaction exposure refers to long term cash flow exposure.
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---
Question 139
Given below are two statements : one is labelled as Assertion (A) and the other is labelled as Reason (R).
Assertion (A) : A brand is an important corporate resource.
Reason (R) : A brand embodies all of the characteristics of a company's product in the mind of the consumer.
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A)
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is not the correct explanation of (A)
3. (A) is correct but (R) is not correct
4. (A) is not correct but (R) is correct

---
Question 140
Given below are two statements : one is labelled as Assertion (A) and the other is labelled as Reason (R).
Assertion (A) : The failure of the international market to connect firms as collaborators will entice a company to enter with wholly owned operations or wholly owned FDI.
Reason (R) : The company perceives having operating advantages to overcome its liability of foreignness.
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A)
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is not the correct explanation of (A)
3. (A) is correct but (R) is not correct
4. (A) is not correct but (R) is correct

---
Read the following passage carefully, and answer question. (Comprehension for Q141 - 145)

In this modern digitalized world, business are required to be mindful both in terms of what they are doing and how they are doing it. The company's brand is not just dependent on the quality of products they are offering to people but on the overall impact of the company's operations on the society, environment and the economy.
Their sense of social responsibility provides them with a competitive edge over their competitors in a crowded marketplace. CSR is a holistic and integrated management concept whereby companies integrate their social and environmental objectives with their business objectives. It works on a Triple Bottom Line Approach i.e. Company focuses on 3P's; People, Planet and Profit while addressing all the expectations of its stakeholders. The majority of policy initiatives in the country are driven by the objectives of equal opportunities, minimizing poverty and human deprivation, focus on fundamental rights, etc. thereby leading to strong human development.
The choices that we make today will be going to affect and influence our future generations. Despite all this, inequality and disparity still exists. This year, the Indian Government implemented new CSR guidelines. These guidelines require Indian companies to spend 2 percent of their net profit on CSR. India is the first country in the world to make CSR mandatory. Including the CSR mandate in Companies Act, 2013, is a great step of engaging the corporate sector in the equitable development of the country. Earlier companies were required to spend 2 percent of the profits towards CSR and in case of failure to do so; they were required to give reasons. But as per the present amendment, companies are required to spent 2 percent of profit towards CSR in the given time limit or are required to turn over this amount of profits in the funds which are run by the government.
The new amendment will require all the companies which qualify the provisions under CSR guidelines to spend the specified part of their profits towards Corporate Social Responsibility without failing.

Question 141
Given below are two statements :
Statement (I) : CSR is a holistic and integrated management concept whereby companies integrate their industrial and future objectives with their business objectives.
Statement (II) : In this modern digitalized world, business are required to be mindful both in terms of what they are doing and how they are doing.
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---
Question 142
According to the passage, what is the significance of a company's Social responsibility in the modern digitalized world ?
1. It has no impact on the company's brand.
2. It depends solely on the quality of products.
3. It provides a competitive edge in the crowded market place.
4. It leads to higher profits.

---
Question 143
What is the 'Triple Bottom Line Approach' in CSR as mentioned in the passage ?
1. Focus on customer satisfaction, revenue and profit.
2. Focus on people, planed and profit.
3. Focus on shareholder's interest, environmental sustainability and innovation.
4. Focus on reducing costs, increasing production and market share.

---
Question 144
Given below are two statements : one is labelled as Assertion (A) and the other is labelled as Reason (R).
Assertion (A) : Companies are required to spend 2% of profits towards CSR in the given time limit.
Reason (R) : The Government of India has made stringent provisions for CSR in the Companies Act, 2013.
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A)
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is not the correct explanation of (A)
3. (A) is correct but (R) is not correct
4. (A) is not correct but (R) is correct

---
Question 145
What is the consequence for companies that fail to most the CSR spending requirement as per the new amendments ?
1. Companies may file a suitable explanation.
2. Companies may seek grace from the Government.
3. Companies may get it done from the Sister Companies.
4. Companies are required to turn over the profits to government - run funds.

---
Read the following passage carefully, and answer question. (Comprehension for Q146 - Q150)

Introduction of Corporate Governance in a company brings order and methods in decision making process and fixes who should own the responsibility. The company will focus on its mission, vision and not any personal likes dislikes of a few top officers. The benefits of corporate governance are difficult to quantify in short range.
Accounting jugglery and showing profits give a company's short term gains but they are not long term policies for financial credibility. True financial performance of a company, openness and governance policies give investor's confidence.
The unethical policies or mismanagement by CEO or director of a company will be exposed by adhering to corporate governance principles. Corporate governance will throw light on excessive remunerations given to directors or CEOs. It improves investors confidence and relations.
The occurrence of frauds and mismanagement can be detected early for remedial actions. It is also agreed that no system can remove fraudulent practices fully. Corporate governance is an open democratic system. They may appear long winded or time consuming or individual decision making is hindered.

Question 146
What is one of the primary goals of including corporate governance in a company ?
1. Maximizing short-term profits.
2. Discouraging personal likes and dislikes of top management.
3. Bringing order and method to decision making.
4. Enhancing competition in the market.

---
Question 147
According to the passage, what is the benefit of adhering to corporate governance for investors ?
1. Short term gains
2. Confidence in true financial performance
3. Higher rates of dividend
4. Possibilities of rights issues

---
Question 148
How does corporate governance help in exposing unethical policies or mismanagement in a company ?
1. By promoting company's flag ship brand.
2. By enhancing employees productivity.
3. By fixing responsibilities and promoting openness.
4. By encouraging accounting Jugglery.

---
Question 149
How does the passage describe corporate governance as as system ?
1. Time ensuring but effective.
2. Hinding the risk of fraud.
3. An open democratic system with some drawbacks.
4. A system capable of removing fraudulent activities 100%.

---
Question 150
Which one of the following is one of the advantages of corporate governance mentioned in the passage ?
1. Hiding excessive remuneration of directors and CEOs.
2. Discouraging individual decision making.
3. Improving investors confidence and relations.
4. Avoiding competition.
