**Question 1**
Current account deficit in India is increasing because of:
A. Rise in India's imports
B. Rise in India's exports
C. Increase in foreign capital inflows
D. Fall in India's exports

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A and B Only
2. B and C Only
3. A and D Only
4. C and D Only

---

**Question 2**
What kind of elasticity of demand is faced by the oligopolistic firm?
1. Low elasticity for price rise and more elasticity for price cuts.
2. High elasticity for both whether there is price rise or price cuts.
3. Low elasticity for both whether there is price rise or price cuts.
4. High elasticity for price rise but less elasticity for price cuts.

---

**Question 3**
Which of the following correctly explains the notion of consumer surplus?
1. The difference between what consumers are willing to pay for a given quantity of goods and services and the amount they actually pay.
2. The difference between what consumers are willing to buy given quantity of goods and services and the quantity they actually buy.
3. The difference between what consumers are willing to plan to buy given quantity of goods and services and the quality they actually buy.
4. The difference between total utility and addition to total utility from goods and services the consumers buy.

---

**Question 4**
The market demand and supply equation for a product are
$Q_D = 30 - 3P$
$Q_S = 20 + 2P$
Here Q for quantity; P for price
What is the equilibrium demand?
1. 18
2. 16
3. 24
4. 20

---

**Question 5**
"Corporate governance is to conduct the business in accordance with the owner's (shareholders) desires" is conceptualized by
1. Henry Fayol
2. Milton Friedman
3. Peter Drucker
4. Lord Cadbury

---

**Question 6**
According to Maslow's hierarchy of needs, which one of the following organizational aspects will not be included in the self-actualization needs?
1. Advancement
2. Job challenge
3. Status
4. Self-image

---

**Question 7**
Which one of the following is not a job related performance data to identify the performance of an employee?
1. Attitude Surveys
2. Late deliveries
3. Grievances
4. Absenteeism

---

**Question 8**
Which one of the following is not an effect on performance, behaviour and health when stress level of an employee is high?
1. Feeling sleepy all the time
2. Poor performance
3. Exhaustion
4. Nervousness

---

**Question 9**
Which one of the following methods of forecasting human resource demand is not a qualitative method?
1. Delphi technique
2. Markov analysis
3. Nominal group technique
4. Group brain storming

---

**Question 10**
Which one of the following is not a characteristic of performance management?
1. Owned by human resource department
2. Does not have direct link to reward
3. Continuous review with one or more formal reviews in a year
4. Joint or participative process

---

**Question 11**
Which one of the following is not an advantage of staffing international operations of an MNC using Parent Country Nationals (PCN)?
1. Proper linkage between foreign subsidiary and the headquarters
2. Familiar with the local norms and culture
3. Use of PCN helps develop global capabilities in the organisation
4. Knowledgeable about how the parent company operates

---

**Question 12**
Which one of the following can be the coping mechanism if the source of resistance to change is the fear of loss of power?
1. Active support from the top
2. Participation and involvement
3. Role clarity and definition
4. Role redefinition and re-orientation

---

**Question 13**
If the employers' attitude towards trade unions is of acceptance, their behaviour will be
1. Dictatorial
2. Paternal
3. Business-like
4. Participative

---

**Question 14**
Accounting principles are generally based on:
1. Practicability
2. Subjectivity
3. Convenience in recording
4. Legal framework

---

**Question 15**
ABC Ltd. produces two products X and Y in its production unit. Each unit of X and Y takes 5 hours and 10 hours as production time respectively. 1000 units of X and 600 units of Y were produced in a month. Actual man-hours in this production were 10,000. Yearly budgeted hours are 96,000. The activity ratio is:
1. 125%
2. 137.50%
3. 108.33%
4. 125.50%

---

**Question 16**
Computation of overhead absorption rates should be based on:
1. Maximum capacity
2. Practical capacity
3. Idle capacity
4. Normal capacity

---

**Question 17**
Operating budget consists of two parts, called as ________ budget and ________ budget
1. Cash, Expense
2. Flexible, Master
3. Programme, Responsibility
4. Master, Utilisation

---

**Question 18**
As per CAPM model, the required rate of return on a security is:
1. Return on Treasury Bonds + Market Risk Premium
2. Return on individual securities + Beta Premium
3. Return on Government Securities + Unsystematic Risk Premium
4. Return on Corporate Securities + Systematic Risk Premium

---

**Question 19**
A firm can delay and favourably affect the control of its cash disbursements through the use of:
1. Bootstrapping payables
2. Zero balance accounts
3. Yield sensing for marketable securities
4. Hedging of intangibles

---

**Question 20**
Firm A wants to acquire Firm B and the financial details of the firms are:
Market Price per share: A = ₹50, B = ₹20
Number of shares: A = 1,000,000, B = 500,000
Market value of the firm: A = ₹50 million, B = ₹10 million
If the merger is expected to bring gains which have a present value of ₹10 million and Firm A offers one share for every two shares of Firm B to the shareholders of Firm B, the apparent cost of acquiring firm B is:
1. ₹3,500,000
2. ₹5,000,000
3. ₹7,692,516
4. ₹2,500,000

---

**Question 21**
Which of the following forms of purchasing power parity states that changes in spot rates over a period of time reflect the changes in price levels over the same period in the currencies of the concerned economies?
1. Relative form
2. Absolute form
3. Expectations form
4. Contango form

---

**Question 22**
Which of the following marketing channel function helps to fulfil the completed transactions?
1. Gathering and distributing information about consumers
2. Reaching an agreement on price and other terms
3. Communicating with prospective buyers
4. Assuming the risks of carrying out the channel work

---

**Question 23**
A portion of a market that is so well suited to a firm's internal and external environment that other firms are not likely to challenge and dislodge it, is called:
1. Core competency
2. Propitious niche
3. Market segment
4. Product positioning

---

**Question 24**
An approach to corporate strategy in which top management views its product lines and business units as a series of investments from which it expects a profitable return is called ________
1. business mix
2. integrated strategy
3. portfolio analysis
4. scenario analysis

---

**Question 25**
The total combined customer lifetime values of all of the company's customers is known as
1. Customer equity
2. Customer-perceived value
3. Customer Lifetime value
4. Customer share

---

**Question 26**
Which of the following indicates "Perishability" aspect of service characteristics?
1. Customers participate in and affect the transaction
2. Service delivery and customer satisfaction depend on employee actions
3. Customers affect each other
4. It is difficult to synchronize supply and demand with services

---

**Question 27**
Which of the following are the distinctive features of "Big data" being used in Analytical CRM?
1. Volume, Variety, Velocity, Veracity
2. Volume, Variability, Variety, Veracity
3. Valence, Variety, Volume, Variance
4. Variance, Valence, Velocity, Veracity

---

**Question 28**
"A tennis player slams his tennis racket to the ground when disappointed with his/her game".
In above example, tennis player exhibits which of the following defense mechanism to handle frustration?
1. Aggression
2. Regression
3. Projection
4. Rationalization

---

**Question 29**
"An outlet which starts as a general retailer grows into a specialized retailer and in course of time becomes even a bigger general retailer"
Above statement corresponds to which of the following theory of Retail?
1. Wheel of Retailing Theory
2. Retail Accordian Theory
3. Theory of Natural Selling
4. Retail Life Cycle Theory

---

**Question 30**
A cold drink bottling plant fills bottles of 500 ml. capacity with mean of 500 ml. and a standard deviation of 5 ml. Atleast what percentage of bottles would contain cold drink between 490 ml. and 510 ml.?
1. 75 per cent
2. 95 per cent
3. 67 per cent
4. 81 per cent

---

**Question 31**
Karl Pearson co-efficient of variation (CV) measures which of the following characteristics?
1. Homogeneity
2. Unbiasedness
3. Consistency
4. Efficiency

---

**Question 32**
For a project activity, the optimistic, the pessimistic and the most likely times are 4, 14 and 6 days respectively. Its average time is ________
1. 10 days
2. 7 days
3. 12 days
4. 9 days

---

**Question 33**
In decision analysis, the expected value of perfect information is calculated as ________
1. Expected payoff with perfect information minus Expected payoff without experimentation
2. Expected value of sample information minus expected payoff with perfect information
3. Maximum payoff for each state of nature multiplied by the prior probability of that state of nature
4. Expected increase in the payoff minus the cost of the experimentation

---

**Question 34**
Which one of the following is NOT a non-tariff barrier?
1. Quota
2. Customs and entry procedures
3. Combined rates
4. Exchange control

---

**Question 35**
Which of the following marketing strategy falls under Geocentric kind of international orientation?
1. Extension of domestic strategy to foreign markets
2. Global strandardisation
3. Localisation
4. Trade off between localization and standardisation

---

**Question 36**
Which of the following events contributed most to the disruption in the Bretton Woods system?
1. Introduction of Special Drawing Rights.
2. Western dominance over the system
3. Suspension of convertibility of dollar into gold in 1971
4. Oil price shock of 1973

---

**Question 37**
Which of the following integrations is related to supernational organizational structure?
1. Free Trade Area
2. Economic union
3. Common Market
4. Economic Integration

---

**Question 38**
L.C. Gupta's sickness prediction model primarily focused on which of the following?
1. Earnings Before Interest and Tax
2. Sales and Working capital levels
3. EBIT and operating cash flows
4. Market value of equity and debt

---

**Question 39**
'Entrepreneur is an innovator playing the role of a dynamic businessman adding material growth to economic development', is articulated by:
1. Porter (1990)
2. Lichtenstein and Lyons (2010)
3. Joseph Schumpeter (1883-1950)
4. Shane (2008)

---

**Question 40**
String of activities that moves a product from the raw material stage through manufacturing and distribution, and ultimately to the end user is called:
1. Business model
2. Business verticals
3. Value chain
4. Business concept

---

**Question 41**
A metaphor describing the time period in which a firm can realistically enter a new market is called
1. Opportunity fall
2. Opportunity gap
3. Window of opportunity
4. Opportunity recognition

---

**Question 42**
According to Max Weber, in an ideal bureaucracy:
A. Jobs are broken down into simple, routine and well-defined tasks.
B. Offices/Positions are organized in a hierarchy.
C. All organizational members are to be selected on the basis of technical qualifications.
D. Rules and Regulations are applied uniformly, avoiding involvement with personalities and personal preferences of employees.
E. The interests of any one employee or group of employees should not take precedence over the interests of the organization as a whole.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, C, D only
2. B, C, D, E only
3. A, B, D, E only
4. A, B, C, E only

---

**Question 43**
Which of the following are "Feedforward" control measures for reducing workplace violence?
A. Investigate incidences and take appropriate action.
B. Train employees about how to avoid danger if situation arises
C. Review company policies and change these policies, if necessary
D. Clearly communicate policies to employees.
E. Observe how employees treat and interact with each other.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A and C only
2. C and E only
3. B and D only
4. B, D and E only

---

**Question 44**
Which of the following are the sources of ethical problems in organizations?
A. Failure of personal character
B. Organisational goals Vs. Social values
C. Psychological egoism and rationalism
D. Virtue and common good conflict
E. Conflict of personal values and organizational goals

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, B and E only
4. B, D and E only

---

**Question 45**
Psychological factors of individual behaviour will include which of the following?
A. Perception
B. Emotional intelligence
C. Values
D. Economic status
E. Attitudes

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, C only
2. A, C, E only
3. B, D, E only
4. B, C, E only

---

**Question 46**
Which of the following are the traits of successful leaders?
A. Creative
B. Assertive
C. Persuasive
D. Decisive
E. Self-confident

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, C, D only
2. A, B, E only
3. B, C, D, E only
4. B, D, E only

---

**Question 47**
Which of the following will fall under the grievances relating to promotion category?
A. Supersession
B. Increments
C. Acting promotions
D. Seniority
E. Pay fixation

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, C, D only
2. B, D, E only
3. A, C, E only
4. A, C, D, E only

---

**Question 48**
Which of the following are constituents of trade unions?
A. Members
B. Employers
C. Political Party
D. Government
E. Society

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B only
2. A, C, D only
3. B, C, E only
4. A, B, D, E only

---

**Question 49**
Which of the following are benefits for the organization of career management?
A. Improved performance
B. Improved productivity
C. Increased retention of high talent employees
D. Development of competencies and personal skills
E. Better individual - organization match

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, C only
2. B, C, E only
3. A, B, C, D only
4. A, D, E only

---

**Question 50**
Which of the following are three levels of training in the six sigma quality system?
A. Blue Belts
B. Yellow Belts
C. Black Belts
D. Red Belts
E. Green Belts

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, D and E only
4. B, C and E only

---

**Question 51**
Which of the following statements are true in context of efficient market?
A. Equilibrium rates of return will prevail
B. Investor cannot earn a positive return
C. Volatility will be very high
D. Securities of listed firms sell at their fair values
E. Investors are generally risk-averse

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, D only
2. B, C only
3. D, E only
4. B, E only

---

**Question 52**
Which of the following are considered interelocking elements of a versatile business model?
A. Regulatory support and promoter experience
B. Customer value proposition
C. Financial resources and cost sheets
D. Key resources and processes
E. Profit formula

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, C and D only
4. B, D and E only

---

**Question 53**
Which of the following are construed for government intervention to support entrepreneurship and small firms?
A. Stimulate demand and new venture creation in the emerging sectors
B. Decentralised asset ownership and people participation
C. Help firms to adopt new technology to avoid market failure
D. Supporting women participation in business and high-tech firms
E. Export promotion and currency stabilisation

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, C and D only
4. B, D and E only

---

**Question 54**
Indian national strategy for financial inclusion, 2019-24 aims at:
A. Broadening and deepening of financial inclusion
B. Digitisation and seamless facilitation of financial transactions
C. Access to formal financial services in an affordable manner.
D. Women empowerment and strengthening self help group (SHG) ecosystems.
E. Promoting financial literacy and consumer protection

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, B and D only
4. A, C and E only

---

**Question 55**
Which of the following statements are applicable to value-based pricing concept?
A. Design product to deliver desired value at target price
B. Set target price to match customer perceived value.
C. Determine costs that can be incurred.
D. Convince buyers of product's value.
E. Assess customer needs and value perceptions.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, C and E only
2. A, B, C and D only
3. B, C, D and E only
4. A, D and E only

---

**Question 56**
Which of the following criteria core competencies must meet in order to create value and provide a viable basis for synergy among the businesses in a corporation?
A. Core competencies must be difficult for competitors to imitate.
B. Different businesses in the corporation must be similar in atleast one important way.
C. Core competence must enhance competitive advantage by creating superior customer value.
D. Core competencies must facilitate business diversification through shared activities with competing firms.
E. Core-competencies must leverage business resources with competing firm to reduce business costs.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, D and E only
4. B, C and D only

---

**Question 57**
Which of the following Digital marketing statements are correct?
A. Click through Rate is calculated by dividing the total number of clicks by the total number of ad impressions.
B. Long tail keywords are general key words which draw lower customer traffic.
C. Adwords is Google’s earned search marketing programme.
D. Search Engine Marketing includes both search engine optimization and paid search.
E. Ad Auction is the process that Google runs for every Google search to decide which ad must appear for that specific search and in which order these set of ads will be displayed.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. B, C and D only
3. A, B and E only
4. A, D and E only

---

**Question 58**
Which of the following circumstances favour "Sprinkle Approach" for launching products in international markets?
A. The life cycle of the product is relatively short.
B. The competitive intensity of the market is very high with strong and fierce competitors
C. Cost of entry in markets is relatively high.
D. Firm has large resources to manage simultaneous product launch in multiple markets.
E. The size of the target market is small with low growth potential.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and D only
2. A, C and E only
3. B, D and E only
4. C, D and E only

---

**Question 59**
Which of the following characteristics of a data set are understood using the Karl Pearson coefficient of variation?
A. Disparity
B. Consistency
C. Uniformity
D. Homogeneity
E. Unbiasedness

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, B and E only
4. B, C and E only

---

**Question 60**
Which of the following statistical tests examines the equality of two means?
A. F-test
B. 't'-test
C. Chi-square ($\chi^2$) test
D. Mann-Whitney 'U' test
E. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A and C only
2. B and D only
3. A, B and C only
4. C, D and E only

---

**Question 61**
Which of the following comprises the interdependent troika of waste, overburden and unevenness in the 'lean' manufacturing?
A. Muri: Unreasonable work stress on men and machines
B. Deviations from quality, productivity and breakdowns.
C. Muda: Non value adding work.
D. Uncertainty in task times, in demand and customer's role.
E. Mura: Inconsistency and variation in work flow, speed and quality.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. C, D and E only
3. A, C and D only
4. A, C and E only

---

**Question 62**
Identify the correct statement(s) about Data Warehousing (DW):
A. DW system must be acceptable to regulators and business community.
B. DW system must not be based on open source platforms
C. DW system must present information attractive to users.
D. DW system must be secure bastion that protects the information.
E. DW system must be adaptive to change.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, C only
2. E, B only
3. A, D, E only
4. B, C, D only

---

**Question 63**
Identify the incorrect statement(s) from the following –
A. Technology is a differentiator among similar business enterprises.
B. Technology can not create value for 'not-for-profit' organisations.
C. Pace of technology affects the business model of modern enterprises.
D. Needs and Goals be defined before acquisition of technology.
E. Organisations pay little attention to the process of change once a decision to acquire technology has been taken.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. B only
2. C, B only
3. A, C only
4. D, E only

---

**Question 64**
Which of the following are considered the 'principal standards' in the ISO series developed by the International Organization for Standardization?
A. ISO 9000
B. ISO 9001
C. ISO 9002
D. ISO 9003
E. ISO 9004

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, B and C only
2. B, C and D only
3. C, D and E only
4. A and E only

---

**Question 65**
Identify the correct statements in context of equity financing.
A. Borrowing limit increases as a consequence of increase in number of shares.
B. Ordinary shares are generally not redeemable.
C. Issue of new shares dilutes the EPS if the profits do not increase immediately in proportion to increase in number of shares.
D. A company is not legally obliged to pay dividend.
E. Ordinary shares are less riskier from investor's perspective.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. C, E only
2. A, B, C, D only
3. B, C, D only
4. A, E only

---

**Question 66**
As per Du Pont equation for ROE, other things remaining constant, which of the following statements is false?
A. An increase in the net profit margin will increase the ROE.
B. An increase in debt to asset ratio will increase the ROE.
C. A decrease in return on assets will decrease the ROE.
D. An increase in the average asset turnover will increase the ROE.
E. An increase in equity multiplier will increase the ROE.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. B only
2. C, D only
3. A, E only
4. A, C only

---

**Question 67**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I | LIST II |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Directive style | I. High tolerance for ambiguity and an intuitive way of thinking |
| B. Analytic style | II. Low tolerance for ambiguity and an intuitive way of thinking |
| C. Conceptual style | III. Low tolerance for ambiguity and rational way of thinking |
| D. Behavioural style | IV. High tolerance for ambiguity and rational way of thinking |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-III, B-IV, C-I, D-II
2. A-III, B-IV, C-II, D-I
3. A-IV, B-III, C-II, D-I
4. A-II, B-I, C-IV, D-III

---

**Question 68**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Cattell's Personality Factors) | LIST II (Bipolar dimensions) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Social boldness | I. Imaginative Vs. Practical |
| B. Abstractedness | II. Shrewd Vs. Forthright |
| C. Private | III. Controlled Vs. Casual |
| D. Perfectionism | IV. Venturesome Vs. Timid |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-III, B-I, C-II, D-IV
2. A-I, B-IV, C-II, D-III
3. A-IV, B-II, C-I, D-III
4. A-IV, B-I, C-II, D-III

---

**Question 69**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (VRIO Framework criteria) | LIST II (Domain (HR) Applicatios) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Value | I. Edge in terms of skills, knowledge and abilities |
| B. Rareness | II. Teamwork |
| C. Imitability | III. Empowerment programs |
| D. Organisation | IV. Unique history or culture |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-III, B-I, C-IV, D-II
2. A-I, B-IV, C-III, D-II
3. A-II, B-IV, C-I, D-III
4. A-III, B-I, C-II, D-IV

---

**Question 70**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Investment Decision rule) | LIST II (Feature) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. NPV | I. Insufficiently consistent |
| B. Payback | II. Highly Inflexible |
| C. Cash Returns | III. Balance between flexibility and consistency |
| D. Accounting Returns | IV. Relatively consistent |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-III, B-IV, C-I, D-II
2. A-I, B-II, C-IV, D-III
3. A-III, B-II, C-IV, D-I
4. A-II, B-III, C-I, D-IV

---

**Question 71**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Theory) | LIST II (What Nation's do) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Mercantilism | I. The range of products made or grown for export would depend upon the relative availability of different factors in each country. |
| B. Theory of Absolute Advantage | II. Gold and silver are the mainstay of national wealth |
| C. Theory of Comparative Advantage | III. Countries should specialize in the production of goods for which they have absolute advantage |
| D. Factor Endowment | IV. Nations should produce those goods for which they have the greatest relative advantage |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-I, B-II, C-III, D-IV
2. A-III, B-II, C-I, D-IV
3. A-II, B-III, C-IV, D-I
4. A-IV, B-III, C-II, D-I

---

**Question 72**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Acquisition 'Play') | LIST II (Strategy to achieve performance premium) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Acquire synergistic product/market position | I. Use borrowing capacity and other financial strengths to achieve an immediate performance premium |
| B. Acquire a company with under utilized financial strength | II. Anticipate shortages and price increases in the physical assets' value. Invest to exploit the resource, using distribution capacity. |
| C. Acquire an underskilled company in a related industry | III. Achieve scale economies of distribution, production and technology |
| D. Acquire an underexploited physical asset | IV. Apply superior marketing, technology and production expertise to enhance the competitive position and performance of the acquisition candidate |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-III, B-I, C-IV, D-II
2. A-IV, B-II, C-I, D-III
3. A-III, B-IV, C-II, D-III
4. A-II, B-III, C-I, D-IV

---

**Question 73**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Buyer's Need Assessment Question) | LIST II (Example) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Problem Impact Question | I. How much inventory of the product do you carry? |
| B. Problem discovery question | II. Have you experienced any delays in getting those materials from your current suppliers? |
| C. Solution value question | III. What effects do the delays in receiving the materials have on your production costs? |
| D. Situational question | IV. If the rejection rate on your quality inspection is reduced to under 1%, how much would that save you? |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-II, B-I, C-IV, D-III
2. A-II, B-IV, C-III, D-I
3. A-I, B-III, C-II, D-IV
4. A-III, B-II, C-IV, D-I

---

**Question 74**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Project Network concepts) | LIST II (Underlying meaning) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Crashing an activity | I. Length of the longest path through the project network |
| B. Project Network | II. It shows the time and cost when the activity is fully crashed |
| C. Critical path | III. It consists of a number of nodes and a number of arcs that connects two different nodes |
| D. Crash point | IV. Taking special (costly) measures to reduce the duration of an activity below its normal value |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-II, B-IV, C-III, D-I
2. A-IV, B-III, C-I, D-II
3. A-IV, B-III, C-II, D-I
4. A-III, B-I, C-IV, D-II

---

**Question 75**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (KM Model) | LIST II (Approach) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Von Krogh and Roos | I. Sense-making |
| B. Wiig | II. Semantic Network |
| C. Monaka and Takeuchi | III. Organisational epistemology |
| D. Choo and Weick | IV. Spiralling |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-II, B-I, C-III, D-IV
2. A-I, B-III, C-II, D-IV
3. A-III, B-II, C-IV, D-I
4. A-I, B-II, C-III, D-IV

---

**Question 76**
Match List I with List II

| LIST I (Entrepreneurship Thinkers) | LIST II (Entrepreneurial manifestations) |
| :--- | :--- |
| A. Bamoul (2002) | I. Innovating firms are more profitable than the non-innovators |
| B. Geroski et.el. (1993) and Leiponen (2000) | II. Entrepreneur is a marriage broker between what is desirable from an economic point of view and what is profitable from technological point of view |
| C. Timmons and Spinelli (2007) | III. Entrepreneurship is a way of thinking, reasoning and acting that is opportunity obsessed, holistic in approach and leadership balanced |
| D. Burton Klein (1917) | IV. In free market economies, innovaton is a necessity if a firm wants to survive |

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A-IV, B-I, C-III, D-II
2. A-II, B-IV, C-III, D-I
3. A-I, B-IV, C-II, D-III
4. A-III, B-I, C-IV, D-II

---

**Question 77**
Arrange the following steps of developing an organizational structure in sequence.
A. Enumerate and group the activities of the enterprise consistent with the determined objectives.
B. Assign the grouped activities to personnel. Similar functions should be combined into one position.
C. Clearly define the objectives to determine the type, stability and basic characteristics of the organization.
D. Determine the span of supervision, the types of organization, the basis of departmentation and pattern of authority structure.
E. Assess the capacities and abilities of human and other resources at the disposal of enterprise. Adapt the organization in sync with the reality.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. C, A, B, D, E
2. A, C, B, E, D
3. C, B, A, E, D
4. E, D, C, A, B

---

**Question 78**
Arrange the following steps of Strategic Human Resource Management in the logical sequence.
A. Improve participative management.
B. To promote teamwork.
C. Shift focus from statutory participation to total participation.
D. Achieve group cohesiveness by inculcating participative management.
E. To achieve excellene in human resource management.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. E, D, B, A, C
2. E, B, D, A, C
3. B, A, D, E, C
4. A, C, E, B, D

---

**Question 79**
Sequence the following steps in the preparation of a versatile and seasoned business plan.
A. Industry and market analysis.
B. Operations, marketing plan and financing.
C. Company and management team profiling.
D. Risk and contingency analysis.
E. Executive summary.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, D, C, E
2. C, B, A, D, E
3. E, C, A, B, D
4. D, A, C, B, E

---

**Question 80**
Arrange the following in the increasing (higher) order of employee participation in decision-making.
A. Joint management councils.
B. Workers' representative in the board.
C. Works Committees.
D. Workers' participation in management.
E. Workers' share in equity.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. C, A, E, D, B
2. A, C, D, B, E
3. C, A, B, D, E
4. C, A, D, E, B

---

**Question 81**
Following are the steps followed by finance manager in procurement of a loan for working capital. Arrange them in a proper sequence.
A. Co-ordinating the verification of assets.
B. Submission of loan proposal.
C. Estimation of Working Capital Requirements.
D. Creation of charge on Assets.
E. Document Execution.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. A, D, B, C, E
2. C, B, A, E, D
3. A, B, E, C, D
4. B, A, E, C, D

---

**Question 82**
Identify the correct sequence of activities involved in the process of buy back of shares.
A. Letter of offer to the shareholders.
B. Opening of bank account.
C. Approval for Extra-ordinary General Meeting.
D. Convening board meeting.
E. Declaration of Solvency.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. E, A, B, C, D
2. C, B, A, E, D
3. D, C, E, A, B
4. B, C, A, E, D

---

**Question 83**
Arrange the following steps of six sigma process in a sequence.
A. Discover variation relationship for the vital variables and establish operating tolerances on each of the vital variables.
B. Validate measurement system, methods and procedures, establish the current processes’ capability.
C. Validate the measurement system's ability to produce repeatable data; determine the capability of the process to control the vital variables, implement statistical process control on the vital variables.
D. Select the critical-to-quality characteristics and define the required performance standards.
E. Define upper and lower performance limits; identify sources of variation; screen potential causes of variation to identify the vital variables needing control.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. D, E, B, A, C
2. E, D, B, A, C
3. D, B, A, E, C
4. D, B, E, A, C

---

**Question 84**
Arrange the following steps of personal selling process in a sequence.
A. Making an appointment with customer to establish rapport.
B. Gathering relevant information about the prospects and their needs to plan sales presentation.
C. Handling customer's objections related to price/value/functionality of the product.
D. Discovering, clarifying and understanding the buyer's needs.
E. Gaining buyer's commitment to action.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. D, A, B, C, E
2. A, B, C, D, E
3. B, A, D, C, E
4. E, A, B, C, D

---

**Question 85**
Sequence the following in order to eliminate waste and inefficiencies in the lean manufacturing.
A. Seiso
B. Shitsuke
C. Seiri
D. Seiketsu
E. Seiton

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. B, C, E, D, A
2. C, A, D, B, E
3. E, D, B, C, A
4. C, E, A, D, B

---

**Question 86**
Identify the correct sequence of steps involved in decision making for change of technology.
A. Conducting initial comparisons of alternative technologies.
B. Evaluating the state of present technology.
C. Listing down the probable post implementation issues.
D. Financial feasibility analysis of proposed technology.
E. Identifying the learning requirements.

Choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. D, C, A, E, B
2. B, A, E, D, C
3. A, B, C, E, D
4. D, E, A, B, C

---

**Question 87**
Given below are two statements:
Statement I: When I say that I like my organization, I am expressing an attitude towards my organization.
Statement II: We can control our behaviour in a way that does not reflect our beliefs and values.

In the light of the above statements, choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---

**Question 88**
Given below are two statements:
Assertion (A): The objective functions in business organizations are complex requiring the processing of large volume of data.
Reason (R): AI based non-linear models can solve the problems of arriving at a dynamic solution to business problems.

In the light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A).
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is NOT the correct explanation of (A).
3. (A) is correct but (R) is incorrect.
4. (A) is incorrect but (R) is correct.

---

**Question 89**
Given below are two statements:
Statement I: The product of two regression co-efficients, $b_{xy}$ and $b_{yx}$ equals $r^2$ and can not exceed 1.
Statement II: The average of two regression coefficients $((b_{xy}+b_{yx})/2)$ is always greater than the correlation coefficient, $r_{xy}$.

In the light of the above statements, choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---

**Question 90**
Given below are two statements:
Assertion (A): If the securities with less than perfect negative correlation between their price movements are combined, portfolio risk can be reduced significantly.
Reason (R): The term with negative correlation has the effect of reducing the computed value of total portfolio risk, given other terms that are positive.

In the light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A).
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is NOT the correct explanation of (A).
3. (A) is correct but (R) is incorrect.
4. (A) is incorrect but (R) is correct.

---

**Question 91**
Given below are two statements:
Assertion (A): Entrepreneurship has emerged as a focal point of policy in the majority of countries.
Reason (R): Entrepreneurship contributes in job generation, innovation and promotes social cohesion.

In the light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A).
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is NOT the correct explanation of (A).
3. (A) is correct but (R) is incorrect.
4. (A) is incorrect but (R) is correct.

---

**Question 92**
The practice of working for one organization while also taking up extra responsibilities and job with another requires:
A. Trust
B. Conflict of interest.
C. Stagnation of employee growth.
D. Employees adding limited value to their parent organization.
E. Intellectual property rights.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, E only
2. A, C, D only
3. B, D, E only
4. A, B, C only

---

**Question 93**
Given below are two statements:
Statement I: The practice of moolinghting is increasing because IT professionals are not being rewarded fairly.
Statement II: The contents of employee contract have precisely defined the moolighting.

In the light of the above statements, choose the correct answer from the options given below:
1. Both Statement I and Statement II are correct
2. Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect
3. Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect
4. Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct

---

**Question 94**
As per the given passage, those employees who could not meet the skill gap were:
1. Demoted
2. Trained
3. Transferred
4. Discharged

---

**Question 95**
Moonlighting encourages:
A. Commitment for the organization.
B. Flexibility to employees.
C. Adding skills.
D. Employee turnover rate.
E. Work from home.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B, C only
2. B, C, D only
3. A, D, E only
4. B, C, E only

---

**Question 96**
The practice of 'moonlighting' is:
1. Equally applicable in all industries
2. Ethical
3. Adds value to the organization
4. Legal and enforceable

---

**Question 97**
The factor adversely affecting Indian aviation is:
1. Removal of airfare caps
2. Softening of jet fuel prices.
3. Declining value of rupee against US dollar.
4. Indian airlines acquiring clout as aircraft buyers.

---

**Question 98**
The future of Indian aviation industry is likely to be:
1. Favourable
2. Unfavourable
3. Uncertain
4. Challenged

---

**Question 99**
Given below are two statements:
Assertion (A): Pandemic is not the only reason for the losses in the aviation industry.
Reason (R): Large number of technical reasons have resulted into the cancellation of flights.

In the light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. Both (A) and (R) are correct and (R) is the correct explanation of (A).
2. Both (A) and (R) are correct but (R) is NOT the correct explanation of (A).
3. (A) is correct but (R) is incorrect.
4. (A) is incorrect but (R) is correct.

---

**Question 100**
Which of the following will impair the competitive intensity of the industry?
1. Capital infusion
2. Consolidation of market share
3. Launch of Akasa Airline
4. Turbulence in fuel prices.

---

**Question 101**
Which of the following are the initiatives taken by the Government to promote aviation industry?
A. Big budget for decongesting airports.
B. Encouraging domestic aircraft maintenance industry.
C. Capital infusion to expand capacity.
D. Reducing the permissible list of defective equipment.
E. Removal of airfare caps.

Choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below:
1. A, B only
2. A, B, E only
3. C and D only
4. A, B, C only
